# Використання соціальних мереж для геолокації

## Comparing Methods to Collect and Geolocate Tweets in Great Britain

In order to exploit, as much as possible, the advantages and the opportunities offered by these new types of data sources (i.e., Internet and social media), it is first of all necessary to find efficient strategies of data collection. In this regard, the first main objective of this paper is to identify an optimized and flexible method to collect social media data. In particular, we evaluate the capability, the accuracy, and the efficiency of three alternative methods in retrieving tweets, that is, 280-characters messages sent through the social media Twitter. We based our research on tweets because Twitter is one of the most widespread and used social media worldwide. It is currently ranked by Alexa as the 11th most popular site (Rank based on the world global Internet traffic and engagement over the past 90 days https://www.alexa.com/topsites): 321 million active users (as of the end of 2018) publish 500 million tweets on Twitter per day (5787 tweets every second https://blog.hootsuite.com/twitter-statistics/). Moreover, in the last years “Twitter’s data has been coveted by both computer and social scientists to better understand human behavior and dynamics” [[11](https://www.mdpi.com/2199-8531/7/1/44/htm#B11-JOItmC-07-00044)]. In fact, the information enclosed in these short messages can be used for a wide set of objectives (e.g., evaluation of the impact of policies or of advertising campaigns, longitudinal and/or spatial analysis, impact assessment of events and news, forecast of macro-scenarios, and so forth) in different fields (social sciences, economics, demography, and so on). In addition to this, a broad set of new techniques (e.g., machine learning, text mining, sentiment analysis) can be fruitfully applied to such data for several purposes. Moreover, research options are not just limited to the study of tweets content. Paradata—which describe the data creation process by including information about space, time, used device, and so forth—are automatically collected and may contribute in increasing the knowledge on the studied phenomena. They can also have an important role in measuring the quality of the collected data or even in defining better their content, the context in which they were produced or in justifying their use in specific research. For example, it is possible to perform spatial analyses (e.g., studying the spatial distribution across areas of the sentiment for a particular topic, of the perceived well-being) or geographical-based studies (e.g., about the spread of a certain disease, the evaluation of implemented policies and marketing campaigns, the daily flows of commuters between areas). In this research context, it is indispensable to work with data linked to reliable and precise geographical information. Thus, the quality of the data collection method can be evaluated also by means of its capability of extracting/estimating correct spatial information [[12](https://www.mdpi.com/2199-8531/7/1/44/htm#B12-JOItmC-07-00044)]. Unfortunately, the location information is sometimes hard to obtain, sometimes being unavailable, scarce, and/or of low reliability. For example, for messages posted on Twitter, the geographic location (i.e., latitude and longitude) is available for only 1–2% of the messages (https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tutorials/tweet-geo-metadata.html). Consequently, after the data collection, it is necessary to develop methods for geolocating the text messages, i.e., for assigning a geographic location to each message.

In this framework, our second main objective is to automatically and fully geolocate the information we collect, allowing us to, at the same time, to personalize the level of geographical resolution. In particular, this paper focuses on the study of the entirety of Great Britain (GB); all three methods we propose are able to automatically geolocate all the collected tweets. This means that we can link each text message to a specific sub-area of GB. In this study, the level of geographical resolution is defined by the NUTS-1 (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) level macro regions (https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/nuts/background). Moreover, the methods we consider aim at covering as completely and precisely as possible these geographical sub-areas, reproducing, at the same time, the population distribution and minimizing overlaps.

This work is based on all tweets available for GB from 15th January 2019 to 15th February 2019 and collected, in parallel, through the three different methods. The final dataset (referred to as “raw data”) includes a total number of 119,505,204 tweets.

Our findings show that one of the three methods results as the best option, because it is able to collect the highest amount (and the highest percentage) of unique Tweets per collection time unit. This method is also able to optimize the collection time as well as the pre-processing phase load. At the same time, the initial effort in setting the collection (in terms of number and size of circles) is within acceptable limits, and the method is less prone to the arbitrary decisions of the researcher.

[1] Schlosser, S.; Toninelli, D.; Cameletti, M. Comparing Methods to Collect and Geolocate Tweets in Great Britain. J. Open Innov. Technol. Mark. Complex. 2021, 7, 44. https://doi.org/10.3390/joitmc7010044

## Статистика соціальних медіа в Україні

Статистика соціальних медіа в Україні із серпня 2020 до серпня 2021 (https://gs.statcounter.com/social-media-stats/all/ukraine)

| Соціальна мережа | Частка активності, % |
| :--------------- | -------------------- |
| Facebook         | 57.49%               |
| Pinterest        | 10.28%               |
| Twitter          | 9.4%                 |
| Instagram        | 8.65%                |
| Tumblr           | 5.38%                |
| YouTube          | 5.34%                |